---
title: The Duel
tier: 8
ship: Vladivostok
map: Estuary
layout: battle-report
categories: posts battle-report
---
How the overmatch threat and overmatch capability topics made the vital difference in a battleship duel.

### Situation

After a few minutes of fighting, the Eastern flank of the map has been wiped mostly clean. Just a few seconds ago, a well-aimed salvo destroyed the enemy Fubuki as he was trying to flank me, eliminating the torpedo threat on this side. All that is left here is an enemy Nelson against me. It's one on one, with both of us being pretty much full health. The guy is good - quartersbrief shows me he has a 55% winrate, and he is in a strong position: out of sight in cover behind an island, he lobs the occasional HE salvo at me whenever I get spotted. Nonetheless, I decide to push. I am top tier, after all, and with Soviet battleship tankiness working for me, I should be able to win this flank.

### Charge!

I go to full throttle and start my push - not least to get out of the way of any torpedoes the Fubuki may have launched before going down. As I charge the Nelson's position, I come under sustained air attack. The enemy carrier is recycling raids at a ludicrous rate, and I realize he must be right behind the same island as the Nelson. Should I disengage? I decide against it. I will never be able to outrun his planes, and quarterbrief shows me the guy is bad - 44% winrate. Disengaging would mean turning flat broadside to the Nelson, and I am fairly certain he would happily exploit that. No - I am committed at this point; I will have to fight this out.

I radio the allied carrier, and in a stroke of luck, he gives me an affirmative and actually starts sending air support. Between his combat air patrols and my ship-borne fighters, I now have near-constant air cover. With the enemy carrier being a Serov, the effectiveness is limited, however. With violent maneuvering, I do manage to dodge most of the incoming ordnance. For the rest, my fast-cooldown damage control party and a well-timed heal help mitigate the damage I do take.

### The duel

The enemy Nelson comes in sight, and we start trading salvoes. Just as expected, the Serov is right next to him. I have a decision to make: Do I duel the Nelson, or take out the air threat? With winrates the way they are, I decide the Nelson is the bigger threat.

Quartersbrief also supplies me with another vital piece of information here: I overmatch the Nelson's bow, but he does not overmatch mine. This will be the decisive factor in this engagement. Keeping AP loaded, I aim for his bow. At this point, we are fighting at point blank range, and my guns find him time and again with that Soviet close-range pinpoint accuracy, chunking him for catastrophic damage with every salvo. 

The Nelson's British HE, however, is not to be underestimated, and I am still under constant, withering air attack. I maneuver as best I can, trying to take the torpedoes and skip bombers bow-on. This is much more difficult now, as I have been forced to drop speed so I don't overshoot the Nelson, and have only a limited range of the compass available if I don't want to present broadside to the Nelson. With a 55% winrate, I can be sure he would switch to AP, and the fight is too close for me to be able to afford that. 

In fact, he __does__ switch to AP - he must have seen opportunity in one of my turns. But by the time he fires, I am already turning back into him, and he probably overestimated my angle anyway. His shells glance harmlessly off my bow, just as one of mine finally finds his citadel. In a final act of desperation, he goes to full throttle and closes in for the ram.

But I have anticipated this, and I am ready. All the advantages are on my side:  I am on the lookout for his attempt, and as soon as I see him gathering way and turning in, I know what he is trying to do. Being already at full throttle from having just dodged that air attack, I am far more maneuverable than he is while only just getting underway. Without much difficulty, I manage to sidestep the ram, getting a clean shot at his broadside, but because I can't swing my turrets around in time, my salvo bounces harmlessly off his belt. Now I have even more of an advantage, though, because all of his guns are at the front. I recheck quartersbrief: Do I overmatch his stern as well as his bow? Usually if I overmatch one, I also will the other, but I am not inclined to take chances at this point. 

Yes. As my aft turret swings around, I take aim for the killing blow. 
