---
layout: post
title: "v0.2 has released"
subtitle: "This is now the new stable version"
---
Quartersbrief v0.2 has fully released and is now the new stable version. Learn what's new.

After having completed its [beta phase]({% post_url 2023-07-03-v0.2-has-entered-beta %}), quartersbrief v0.2 is being released today as the latest stable version. It supersedes the v0.1 branch, which had come out in November 2022, and brings plenty of new features. Some of these have been highlighted in previous posts; in particular I have talked about [armor processing]({% post_url 2022-11-18-25-millimeters-of-steel %}) and [more powerful agendas]({% post_url 2023-01-28-new-features-for-agendas %}).

## What's new in this release?

Compared to [v0.1.2]({% post_url 2023-07-11-v0.1.2-released %}), this version brings the following changes:

- Updated user interface, which includes a new logo and logotype
- The internal game data update mechanism has been completely rewritten, improving its power, extensability and quality. This also removes the dependency on Python. Invariants are now checked as part of the update process instead of at every start.
- The command line switch `update-policy` has been replaced with `allow-updates`
- The command line switch `skip-invariants` has been removed
- Briefings are now delivered incrementally as each topic becomes available instead of monolithically at the end. This prevents slow-loading topics from holding the entire briefing hostage, even though other topics are already complete.
- Added processing of ships' armor models and the associated new topics Overmatch Threat, Overmatch Capability, HE & SAP Vulnerability, and HE & SAP Penetration.
- Split agenda storage into a user and a centrally administered repository
- Agendas may now extend each other
- Added topic reordering to agendas
- Agendas may now be defined in JSON or YAML as well as TOML
- Added the ability to define more than one matcher in agendas
- Added `has` clause to agenda matchers
- Ship icons in the Winrate topic are now much sharper, and rendered in the color associated with their ship 
- The colored side bars in the Winrate topic are now slightly darker, making it easier to differentiate ship classes 
- The design of ship bars in the Concealment topic has been brought more in line with the other 
- The location of the warning indicators in the Torpedoes topics has been changed to make them easier to associate with their respective ship. In addition, extraneous warning indicators are now displayed, albeit in a very light color. This makes warning indicators always sit in the same positions, which should make it easier to take them in 
- Added a warning indicator to the Torpedoes topic for deep-water 
- Changed the color of mouse-over highlighting from magenta to dark blue, which is more in keeping with the overall color scheme
- Ship labels should no longer obscure each other in the Hydro topic

Compared to the [last beta version]({% post_url 2023-07-26-v0.2.0-beta.1-released %}) this version brings no more significant changes.

For a full changelog please refer to the [release page][v0.2.0-release].

Download it from the [downloads page]({{ "/download" | relative_url }}) or find out more on the [release page][v0.2.0-release].

[v0.2.0-release]: https://github.com/quartersbrief/quartersbrief/releases/tag/v0.2.0
You can download it from the [downloads page]({{ "/download" | relative_url }}) or find out more on the [release page](https://github.com/quartersbrief/quartersbrief/releases/tag/v0.1.2).
