---
layout: post
title: "New pre-release: v0.3.0-alpha.2"
---
A new prerelease version of quartersbrief is available to test more internal improvements. 

## Intent and rationale 

This alpha release brings together the changes made in [v0.3.0-alpha.0]({% post_url 2023-12-27-v0.3.0-alpha.0-released %}) and [v0.3.0-alpha.1]({% post_url 2024-01-04-v0.3.0-alpha.1-released %}). Once again, this is a real-world fitness test.

With this release, much of the inner workings of quartersbrief has been rewritten. The [intended changes]({% post_url 2023-12-10-a-new-way-of-providing-data %}) to quartersbrief's data engine are now complete, and work can begin on expanding the feature set. 

As a first step in this direction, this alpha introduces a new feature: game auto detection. Previously, quartersbrief relied on you providing the path to your World of Warships installation. With the new feature, quartersbrief will now look for the game in a few standard locations. For a speedy launch, however, it is certainly still recommended to provide the game install location.

## Changes

- Fixed a bug in the Torpedoes topic that caused torpedo flood chance to be undefined
- Fixed a bug in the Torpedoes topic that caused all torpedoes to be considered deep water torpedoes
- Fixed a bug in the HE & SAP Vulnerability topic that caused the topic to crash in battles where at least one enemy ship doesn't have HE shells
- Changed the way modules, upgrades, signal flags and captain skills are applied to ships internally
- Removed support for camouflages as they are now purely cosmetical
- Added a feature to attempt auto-detection of World of Warships when a path is not specified

## Publishing

For a full changelog please refer to the [release page][v0.3.0-alpha.2-release].
You can download it from the [downloads page]({{ "/download" | relative_url }}) or find out more on the [release page][v0.3.0-alpha.2-release].

[v0.3.0-alpha.2-release]: https://github.com/quartersbrief/quartersbrief/releases/tag/v0.3.0-alpha.2
